README.md, before:

vmrc-client: A CLI & API for  VMRC
===========

<!-- language: lang-none -->
    ____   ____  ____    ____  _______      ______  
    |_  _| |_  _||_   \  /   _||_   __ \   .' ___  |
     \ \   / /    |   \/   |    | |__) | / .'   \_|
      \ \ / /     | |\  /| |    |  __ /  | |
       \ ' /     _| |_\/_| |_  _| |  \ \_\ `.___.'\
        \_/     |_____||_____||____| |___|`.____ .'


 A Virtual Machine Image Repository & Catalog
Developed by the [Grid and High Performance Computing Group (GRyCAP)](http://www.grycap.upv.es) at the
[Universitat Politecnica de Valencia (UPV)](http://www.upv.es).

Web page: http://www.grycap.upv.es/vmrc

0. Introduction
=================
VMRC is client-server system (based on Web Services) to catalog and store Virtual Machine Images (VMI)
along with its metadata (OS, applications, etc.). It supports matchmaking to obtain the appropriate VMIs
that satisfy a given set of hard (must) requirements and soft (should) requirements.

Current version: 2.1.2

This repository only includes the VMRC client. Additional packages available are:
  - [vmrc](http://github.com/grycap/vmrc) (The server-side part of the Repository & Catalog of VMIs)
  - [vmrc-web](http://github.com/grycap/vmrc-web) (an ultra-simple web-based frontend to list VMIs from the VMRC Server with a web-browser)  

You will require a running instance of the VMRC service to compile this code and to connect from this client.
If you are looking for a pre-compiled ready-to-use version of the VMRC client check the website.

1. Features
============
+ Java-based API to interact with the VMRC Server
+ CLI (based on shell script) to interact with the VMRC Server


2. Requirements
===============
+ Java JDK 1.7+
+ Maven (to compile from sources)


3. Compilation & Installation
================================================
1. Clone the repository from GitHub
```
git clone https://github.com/grycap/vmrc-client.git
```
2. Make sure that the VMRC Server is up & running at port 8080
     (During compilation of the client, the service WSDL is dynamically accessed to create some classes)
3. Compile from sources with the command:
```
 mvn package
 ```
The file $VMRC_CLIENT_LOCATION/target/vmrc-client.jar will be generated
4. (Optional) Generate the documentation for the client-side Java API
        mvn javadoc:javadoc
The documentation is generated in the target/site/apidocs folder.


4. Usage
===========
1. You may use vmrc.sh and vmrc-admin.sh as an entry point to the CLI for user and admin commands respectively
2. There are sample VMI descriptors in the samples directory
3. The API documentation is available in the apidocs folder.
   In particular, the org.grycap.vmrc.client.api.VMRCServerAPI provides a Java API to contact VMRC Server.


5. Additional Configuration
===========================
1. Create the file $HOME/.vmrc/vmrc_auth with user:password. This information is employed to contact the VMRC server.
2. Create the file $HOME/.vmrc/vmrc.properties with the following properties:
       vmrc.uri = http://machine:8080/vmrc/vmrc
  Customize it according to your deployment: machine/port/https.

Commit message:

Improved documentation and CLI tools

README.md, after:

vmrc-client: A CLI & API for  VMRC
===========

<!-- language: lang-none -->
    ____   ____  ____    ____  _______      ______  
    |_  _| |_  _||_   \  /   _||_   __ \   .' ___  |
     \ \   / /    |   \/   |    | |__) | / .'   \_|
      \ \ / /     | |\  /| |    |  __ /  | |
       \ ' /     _| |_\/_| |_  _| |  \ \_\ `.___.'\
        \_/     |_____||_____||____| |___|`.____ .'


 A Virtual Machine Image Repository & Catalog
Developed by the [Grid and High Performance Computing Group (GRyCAP)](http://www.grycap.upv.es) at the
[Universitat Politècnica de València (UPV)](http://www.upv.es).

Web page: http://www.grycap.upv.es/vmrc

0. Introduction
=================
VMRC is client-server system (based on Web Services) to index Virtual Machine Images (VMI)
along with its metadata (OS, applications, etc.). It supports matchmaking to obtain the appropriate VMIs
that satisfy a given set of hard (must) requirements and soft (should) requirements.

Current version: 2.1.2

This repository only includes the VMRC client. Additional packages available are:
  - [vmrc](http://github.com/grycap/vmrc) (The server-side part of the Repository & Catalog of VMIs)

You will require a running instance of the VMRC service to compile this code and to connect from this client.
If you are looking for a pre-compiled ready-to-use version of the VMRC client check the [webpage](http://www.grycap.upv.es/vmrc).

1. Features
============
+ Java-based API to interact with [VMRC](https://www.github.com/grycap/vmrc)
+ CLI (based on shell script) to interact with [VMRC](https://www.github.com/grycap/vmrc)


2. Requirements
===============
+ Java JDK 1.7+
+ Maven (to compile from sources)


3. Compilation & Installation
================================================
1. Clone the repository from GitHub
```
git clone https://github.com/grycap/vmrc-client.git
```
2. Make sure that the VMRC Server is up & running and listening at port 8080
  * This is the default configuration if you followed the instructions when installing VMRC.
  * During compilation of the client, the service WSDL is dynamically accessed to create some classes.
3. Compile from sources with the command:
```
 mvn package
 ```
The file $VMRC_CLIENT_LOCATION/target/vmrc-client.jar will be generated
4. (Optional) Generate the documentation for the client-side Java API
        mvn javadoc:javadoc
The documentation is generated in the target/site/apidocs folder.

The CLI tools are available in the tools folder
  * vmrc.sh: To register, query, list, deregister and change permissions of VMIs.
  * vmrc-admin.sh: To create, delete, list or update users, etc.

4. Usage
===========
1. You should use vmrc.sh and vmrc-admin.sh as the CLI tools for user and admin commands respectively.
2. There are sample VMI descriptors in the [src/test/vmis] directory
3. The API documentation is available in the [target/site/apidocs] folder.
   In particular, the org.grycap.vmrc.client.api.VMRCServerAPI provides a Java API to contact VMRC.

You have further information in the VMRC client manual available both in the [webpage](http://www.grycap.upv.es/vmrc) and in the [manual] folder at the repo. 
5. Additional Configuration
===========================
1. Create the file $HOME/.vmrc/vmrc_auth with user:password. This information is employed to contact the VMRC server.
2. Create the file $HOME/.vmrc/vmrc.properties with the following properties:
       vmrc.uri = http://machine:8080/vmrc/vmrc
  Customize it according to your deployment: machine/port/https.
